Exercise 1: What is the function of the secondary memory in a computer?

Correct answer:
d) Take input from the user long term, even beyond a power cycle
Explanation: Secondary memory (like HDDs, SSDs, USB drives) is used for long-term data storage, unlike main memory (RAM) which is volatile.
Exercise 2: What is a program?

A program is a set of instructions that a computer follows to perform a specific task or solve a problem.
Exercise 3: What is the difference between a compiler and an interpreter?

    A compiler translates the whole program into machine code before execution.

    An interpreter translates and executes the program line by line at runtime.

Exercise 4: Which of the following contains "machine code"?

Correct answer:
a) The Python interpreter
Explanation: It’s written in machine code to run on your computer. It takes Python code and translates it to machine code during execution.
Exercise 5: What is wrong with the following code?

>>> print 'Hello world'
>>> print('Hello world")

Issues:

    First line: Missing parentheses (Python 3 requires print()).

    Second line: Mismatched quotes around the string (" and ').

Corrected version:

print("Hello world")

Exercise 6: Where in the computer is a variable such as “x = 5” stored after the program runs?

Correct answer:
b) Main Memory
Explanation: Variables like x = 5 are stored in RAM (main memory) during execution.
Exercise 7: What will the following program print out?

x = 43
x = x + 1
print(x)

Answer:
b) 44
Explanation:
x starts at 43, then is incremented by 1, so the output is 44.
Exercise 8: Match each computer component with a human capability

Here’s a possible matching:

    Central Processing Unit (CPU)
    → The brain – does the thinking and decision making.

    Main Memory
    → Short-term memory – stores data temporarily for quick access.

    Secondary Memory
    → Long-term memory – stores information permanently (like memories or notes).

    Input Device
    → Senses – like eyes and ears (e.g., keyboard, mouse gather input like our senses do).

    Output Device
    → Mouth or hands – used to communicate or act (e.g., monitor, speaker, printer).
